---

title: Week 1


As a part of the research plan, We spent the first weeks on reading about TriQL, research papers and articls on related work to learn about different tool available to help student with learning database. On week 1, we studied the "SQL tester": This research paper about an online assesement tool for teaching and assessing SQL. Testing of basic SQL query language knowledge is completed with the SQL Tester as tested by Kleerekoper, et al. Students take practice tests and are allowed to revise their answers in a subsequent practice test. The output of SQL Tester illustrates four windows: 1) question, 2), database tables, 3) output from your query, and 4) desired output which allows the user to see results from the executed query. TriQL is similar in that it shows the query, the results from the query and the table schema. If a user repeats this process over time, in both cases students may become familiar with question semantics while also increasing their knowledge of SQL syntax, whereas TriQL also exposes the user to MongoDB and Neo4J and over time would presumably increase the user’s knowledge.


---

title: Week 2


On week 2, we Learned about The Backwash Effect on SQL Skills Grading by Julia Coleman Prior, Raymond Lister. 2014. The problem based learning approach along with the teacher’s grading methodology influences how deep a student’s knowledge is of SQL. Prior and Lister examine how an online grading tool used in their university department reviews student work. This differs from TriQL because the approach as the article name mentions backwash,  begins with the grading as the first dynamic assessed for learning and then designs lessons for learning SQL.


---

title: Week 3

On Week 3, we read Professor Alawini's paper about Teaching Data Models with TriQL to learn about TriQL, its main purpose and how it works. TriQL, a system for helping novices learn the schema and query languages of three major database systems, including MySQL (a relational database), Neo4J (a graph database), and MongoDB (a document-oriented database). TriQL offers learners a graphical user interface to design and execute a query against a generic database schema without requiring them to have any database programming experience. TriQL follows an interactive approach to learning new database models, supporting a
dynamic and agile learning environment that can be easily integrated into database labs and homework assignments.


---

title: Week 4


On week 4, we Learned aboutDatabase Query Analyzer (DBQA) - A Data-Oriented SQL Clause Visualization Tool byRyan Hardt, Esther Gutzmer 2017. The DBQA system was also the first tool of its kind except it focuses on evaluating subqueries and providing students with meaning error messages unlike focusing on three databases. The uniqueness of DBQA intends on advancing a student’s understanding of more complex queries through subqueries and JOINs while providing understandable error messages. The users have a web-based interface similar in design reporting the query and showing the table(s) schema. A controlled experiment has too, not been completed at the date of this paper.


---
title: Weeks 5 & 6


On weeks 5 & 6, we started on using the TriQL and get more familier with it. We explored the database sets provided to see if it had sufficient information to run the queries. We agreed on using the Pokemon data the pilot TriQL. 


---

title: Weeks 6 & 7


on weeks 6 & 7, we countinued to explore TriQL and draft some survery questions. The survey questions were drafted in synchronization with the queries. While we played with TriQL we derived our questions from our experience and also whether TriQL would enhance the learning experience or relational for the student. Another theme of our survey questions was questions related to software component add-ons such as meaningful error messages (e.g., “datatype error - quotes missing, table name misspelled or not recognized”). Since this is a pilot study, any lessons learned can be applied in iterative releases. 

We designed the survey to take about ten minutes and wrote questions about a variety of topics, ease of TriQL, improvement areas, learning effectiveness, etc. The answers to these questions require either a yes/no reply or a descriptive narrative written by the student.


---

title: Week 8

On weeks 8,



